# An-interactive-deep-learning-based-brain-tumor-detection-and-classification-system

Detecting a Brain Tumor Early and Well is Important for Brain Tumor Treatment. Manual analysis of MRI images requires substantial time and may be prone to errors. The purpose of this research is to develop an interactive web-based deep learning system that is able to detect the presence of a brain tumor in MRI images and to classify the type as either glioma, meningioma, pituitary tumor or normal. The focal point of the research is whether a user- friendly platform can integrate high-performing Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) models for reliable real-time tumor analysis. The primary modules of the system are a Tumor Presence Checker, and a Tumor Classifier. Users upload brain MRIs via a browser for outcome prediction. Two custom convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and three variations (DenseNet-201, ResNet, and Xception ) were trained on a public brain MRI dataset. We evaluated the performance of our systems based on accuracy, precision, recall and F1. The site was built using Flask (backend) and the SQLite3 (user authentication and management). Xception is the best architecture developed above all for classification with 98% accuracy. It can classify cases above all tumor type and normal ones. The system can competently classify both tumor and normal images. Thus, it can be a complete diagnostic tool. It demonstrates that combining advanced CNN with web-based interaction is effective for brain tumor detection and classification. The system is available, dependable and flexible for use in clinics and studies. Future improvements will focus on generalization, larger datasets, and tumor segmentation.


